the US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin is meeting Palestinian leader
mmud Abbas before flying out to Cairo on
the last leg of his Middle East visit
these are I believe the latest pictures
from ramala and the occupied West Bank
where the US Secretary of State is
expected to discuss not just the
situation in Gaza but also the future of
the territory with abas who is the
president of the Palestinian Authority
now during his fifth visit to the region
blinkin has repeated a familiar message
to Israel which is a call for restraint
but he has refused to call for a
ceasefire more than 23,000 Palestinians
many of them children have been killed
in three months of War on
Gaza SAR hyat reports from Tel
Aviv he came to Israel with a message
from some Arab leaders that
normalization of relations is still
possible but with conditions they're
ready to support a lasting solution that
ends the long running Cy cycle of
violence and ensures Israel's
security but they underscored that this
can only come through a regional
approach that includes a pathway to a
Palestinian State nice to see you
there's no sign that Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is willing
to allow a Palestinian state but Anthony
blinkin again urged him to allow more
Aid into the Gaza Strip and he seemed to
convince Israel for now to consider
allowing people it displaced from
northern Gaza to return we agreed today
on a plan for the UN to carry out an
assessment Mission uh it will determine
what needs to be done to allow displaced
paltin Palestinians to return safely to
homes in the
north now this is not going to happen
overnight there are serious security
infrastructure and humanitarian
challenges 70% of the Gaza strips
infrastructure has been
destroyed the majority of the population
is hungry with famine said to be around
the corner corner and diseases already
spreading bodies continue to rot
underneath the rubble and in the streets
Anthony blinkin says that several Arab
countries are ready to support gaza's
reconstruction after the war but it's
hard to tell when that will be as Israel
says it will continue the war throughout
the year and a so-called day after plan
is still not clear but Gaza may not have
been the Israeli side's main concern
blink's flurry of meetings and Military
updates focused on escalating tensions
along Israel's northern border with the
Iranian back group Hezbollah in southern
Lebanon Lincoln's next stop is Egypt
with a Revival of a ceasefire deal and
another round of Hostage releases said
to be top of his agenda but if this trip
has highlighted anything it's how far
away from a real settlement all the
parties to this conflict still
are Sarat Al jaaz Tel Aviv
let's go now to our correspondent
Muhammad jamj he joins us from ramala in
the occupied West Bank and Muhammad what
are we expecting from just the latest
meeting between the Secretary of State
blinkin and Mahmud Abbas we know the US
position it wants the Palestinian
Authority to play a more active role in
gaza's future is that what the
Palestinians
want so Elizabeth let me tell you and
our viewers first where we are we're
here in El manada Square where there is
a protest that's expected in the next
hour that's when the meeting between US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin and
Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas is
expected to happen now it is not
anticipated that the protest will be
very large in fact it's expected it
could only be dozens of people that
would be in line with what we saw the
last time that Anthony blinkin was in
the ramala meeting with mahm abas um
expectations quite frankly are low at
this point in among those that we are
speaking with yes Secretary of State
blinkin reiterated yesterday in his
talks with Israeli officials that he
would like there to be a pathway for a
Palestinian State he also said that he
would like to deliver a message that
they would like to see the US would like
to see the Palestinian Authority reform
itself and he also said that they would
like to see Israelis make it less
difficult for the Palestinian Authority
to govern its own people all that being
said though not a lot of expectation
about what can actually be delivered
from this meeting the last time that
blink met with Abbas the meeting lasted
less than an hour yes the US would like
to see a pathway for a Palestinian state
but they haven't presented any concrete
details as to how that might happen and
we've heard this rhetoric so often from
the US in the past so the demonstrators
that we are expecting out here today
most of them are not just opposed to
Blink and coming and speaking to to the
Palestinian Authority about what might
happen in GA what might happen in Gaza
they're also largely unhappy with the
Palestinian Authority and in fact there
was a recent poll Elizabeth which was
conducted in December which found that
almost two-thirds of Palestinians are
opposed even to the idea of the
Palestinian Authority participating in
meetings to discuss gaza's future after
the war end so it's a complicated
picture even if something could be
delivered in this meeting today and not
a lot of people expect that something
can be um the fact of the matter is
there's not a lot of trust here in the
Palestinian Authority and there's not a
lot of trust in the Palestinian
Authority talking to the us about what
might happen next in Gaza thank you very
much for that Muhammad Jam Jun with the
very latest uh live in rala